NEW-SERVER-SETUP.md, before:

# New server setup

### Requirements

Tested on Ubuntu 20.04 on a VPS configured with : 
- 8gb of ram
- 160 gb of SSD
- 4 vCores

### Instructions

#### Prepare Server

1. Do a clean installation of Ubuntu
2. Connect through SSH : `ssh root@SERVER_IP`
3. Add your public SSH key to `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` to avoid password logins
4. Change default SSH port to improve security and let Gitlab on port 22
   ( [more info](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/howto-change-ssh-port-on-linux-or-unix-server/) ):
- `sudo vi /etc/ssh/sshd_config` and replace `#Port 22` by `Port 2002`.
You can choose any other port higher than `2000` if needed.
5. Allow new SSH port on firewall : `sudo ufw allow 2002/tcp`
6. Allow port on your VPS control panel also.
5. Restart server with `reboot` and check SSH reconnect with port after some 
seconds : `ssh -p root@SERVER_IP`

#### Prepare DNS

Configure DNS with your domain name register to point any sub-domain to an your
chimera server's IP address.
DNS be configured like `*.domain-name.com A SERVER_IP` if you want to have
`domain-name.com` pointing to a website but any sub-domain pointing to your
Chimera server. Anyway, you must redirect all sub-domain of any domain
(or sub-domain) to server IP.
Can also be something like `*.chimera.domain-name.com A SERVER_IP`

#### Install dependencies

1. Install git
- `sudo apt install git`

2. Install docker ( [more info](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/) )
- `sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gnupg-agent software-properties-common`
- `curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -`
- `sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"`
- `sudo apt-get update`
- `sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io`

3. Install docker compose
- `sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.27.4/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose`
- `sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose`

4. Install n (node version manager) and node
- `sudo curl -o /usr/local/bin/n https://raw.githubusercontent.com/visionmedia/n/master/bin/n`
- `sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/n`
- Install node : `sudo n latest`

5. Highly advised, update vim
- `sudo add-apt-repository ppa:jonathonf/vim`
- `sudo apt update`
- `sudo apt install vim`

6. Optionally, install zsh and ohmyzsh
- `sudo apt install zsh`
- `sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/master/tools/install.sh)"`

#### Install cerbot certificate

[More info](https://certbot.eff.org/lets-encrypt/ubuntufocal-nginx)

1. Install snapd and dependencies
- `sudo apt install snapd`
- `sudo snap install core; sudo snap refresh core`

2. Install certbot
- `sudo snap install --classic certbot`
- `sudo ln -s /snap/bin/certbot /usr/bin/certbot`

3. Create root domain name certificate
 ( [more info](https://marcincuber.medium.com/lets-encrypt-generating-wildcard-ssl-certificate-using-certbot-ae1c9484c101) )
Proposed method, can be any other certificate installation method or challenge.
Replace `YOUR_EMAIL`, `DOMAIN_NAME` and follow instructions.
`certbot certonly --manual \
  --preferred-challenges=dns \
  --email YOUR_EMAIL \
  --server https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory \
  --agree-tos \
  -d "*.DOMAIN_NAME"`

#### Install chimera server

1. Pull chimera sources from github
- `git clone https://github.com/zouloux/chimera.git chimera-trunk`
- `ln -s chimera-trunk/server chimera`
We can keep `chimera-trunk` to be able to pull `Chimera` updates.

2. Configure gitlab host
- Go to Gitlab folder : `cd ~/chimera/core/gitlab/`
- Copy template `cp .env.default .env`
- Edit `.env` with vi or any editor : `vi .env` 
  - Set `DOMAIN_NAME` as Chimera root domain name.
  - Fix `GITLAB_IMAGE_VERSION` to a the latest current gitlab version to avoid unwanted upgrades.
    ( [know more](https://hub.docker.com/r/gitlab/gitlab-ce/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated) )
  - Set SMTP parameters to allow gitlab to send e-mails.
    
Ex : `
DOMAIN_NAME=chimera.domain-name.com
GITLAB_IMAGE_VERSION=13.12.1-ce.0
`

FIY, Gitlab is configured to run behind an SSL enabled Nginx proxy.
([more info](https://www.itsfullofstars.de/2019/06/gitlab-behind-a-reverse-proxy/))

3. Configure nginx host
- Go to Ngins virtual-hosts config folder :
  `cd ~/chimera/core/nginx/data/config/virtual-hosts`
- Copy templates `cp chimera.conf.template chimera.conf` and `cp default.conf.template default.conf`
- Edit chimera host file with vi or any editor : `vi chimera.conf`
- Update line `~^(?<service>.+)\.sub-domain\.domain\-name\.com$;` and replace
  with your Chimera root domain name, with dot escaped with `\`
- Ex : `~^(?<service>.+)\.domain\-name\.com$;`
- Update `DOMAIN_NAME` on line 28 and 29 with generated domain ID from certbot.
  If not sure, do `ls -la /etc/letsencrypt/live/`, sometimes Certbot adds an
  extension to the folder name.

4. Create chimera private network
- `docker network create chimera`

5. Start Nginx server as detached service
- `cd ~/chimera/core/nginx`
- `docker-compose build`
- `docker-compose up -d`

Now any sub-domain from your Root DNS should respond `502 Bad Gateway`.
Also, https should work. If http does not respond, double check DNS parameters.
If you can't connect to SSH with domain name, it may come from Nginx. To check
Nginx, stop it with docker-compose and try `docker-compose up` without `-d` to 
see if it crashes, and if you have any useful log.

6. Start gitlab server as detached service
- `cd ~/chimera/core/gitlab`
- `docker-compose build`
- `docker-compose up -d`

After some minutes, you should be able to connect to `https://gitlab.DOMAIN_NAME`.
Insert quickly your master password (create a big one), then connect with user
`root` and the password you just entered.
You can follow instructions to configure gitlab on [this tutorual](https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-gitlab-server-with-docker-on-ubuntu-1804/).

7. Setup gitlab token
- Connect to your freshly installed gitlab, then go to `/admin/runners`. Copy the **registration token**.
- Copy Gitlab runner config template : 
  - `cd ~/chimera/core/gitlab/data/runner-config`
  - `cp config.toml.template config.toml`
- Replace `GITLAB_URL` line 9, no need for `https`.
- Replace `RUNNER_TOKEN` line 10 with previously copied token.
- Configure this file for your needs following [this](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/configuration/advanced-configuration.html)

Commit message:

Doc and default gitlab runner config

NEW-SERVER-SETUP.md, after:

# New server setup

### Requirements

Tested on Ubuntu 20.04 on a VPS configured with : 
- 8gb of ram
- 160 gb of SSD
- 4 vCores

### Instructions

#### Prepare Server

1. Do a clean installation of Ubuntu
2. Connect through SSH : `ssh root@SERVER_IP`
3. Add your public SSH key to `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` to avoid password logins
4. Change default SSH port to improve security and let Gitlab on port 22
   ( [more info](https://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/howto-change-ssh-port-on-linux-or-unix-server/) ):
- `sudo vi /etc/ssh/sshd_config` and replace `#Port 22` by `Port 2002`.
You can choose any other port higher than `2000` if needed.
5. Allow new SSH port on firewall : `sudo ufw allow 2002/tcp`
6. Allow port on your VPS control panel also.
5. Restart server with `reboot` and check SSH reconnect with port after some 
seconds : `ssh -p root@SERVER_IP`

#### Prepare DNS

Configure DNS with your domain name register to point any sub-domain to an your
chimera server's IP address.
DNS be configured like `*.domain-name.com A SERVER_IP` if you want to have
`domain-name.com` pointing to a website but any sub-domain pointing to your
Chimera server. Anyway, you must redirect all sub-domain of any domain
(or sub-domain) to server IP.
Can also be something like `*.chimera.domain-name.com A SERVER_IP`

#### Install dependencies

1. Install git
- `sudo apt install git`

2. Install docker ( [more info](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/) )
- `sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gnupg-agent software-properties-common`
- `curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -`
- `sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"`
- `sudo apt-get update`
- `sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io`

3. Install docker compose
- `sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.27.4/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose`
- `sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose`

4. Install n (node version manager) and node
- `sudo curl -o /usr/local/bin/n https://raw.githubusercontent.com/visionmedia/n/master/bin/n`
- `sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/n`
- Install node : `sudo n latest`

5. Highly advised, update vim
- `sudo add-apt-repository ppa:jonathonf/vim`
- `sudo apt update`
- `sudo apt install vim`

6. Optionally, install zsh and ohmyzsh
- `sudo apt install zsh`
- `sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/master/tools/install.sh)"`

#### Install cerbot certificate

[More info](https://certbot.eff.org/lets-encrypt/ubuntufocal-nginx)

1. Install snapd and dependencies
- `sudo apt install snapd`
- `sudo snap install core; sudo snap refresh core`

2. Install certbot
- `sudo snap install --classic certbot`
- `sudo ln -s /snap/bin/certbot /usr/bin/certbot`

3. Create root domain name certificate
 ( [more info](https://marcincuber.medium.com/lets-encrypt-generating-wildcard-ssl-certificate-using-certbot-ae1c9484c101) )
Proposed method, can be any other certificate installation method or challenge.
Replace `YOUR_EMAIL`, `DOMAIN_NAME` and follow instructions.
`certbot certonly --manual \
  --preferred-challenges=dns \
  --email YOUR_EMAIL \
  --server https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory \
  --agree-tos \
  -d "*.DOMAIN_NAME"`

#### Install chimera server

1. Pull chimera sources from github
- `git clone https://github.com/zouloux/chimera.git chimera-trunk`
- `ln -s chimera-trunk/server chimera`
We can keep `chimera-trunk` to be able to pull `Chimera` updates.

2. Configure gitlab host
- Go to Gitlab folder : `cd ~/chimera/core/gitlab/`
- Copy template `cp .env.default .env`
- Edit `.env` with vi or any editor : `vi .env` 
  - Set `DOMAIN_NAME` as Chimera root domain name.
  - Fix `GITLAB_IMAGE_VERSION` to a the latest current gitlab version to avoid unwanted upgrades.
    ( [know more](https://hub.docker.com/r/gitlab/gitlab-ce/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated) )
  - Set SMTP parameters to allow gitlab to send e-mails.
    
Ex : `
DOMAIN_NAME=chimera.domain-name.com
GITLAB_IMAGE_VERSION=13.12.1-ce.0
`

FIY, Gitlab is configured to run behind an SSL enabled Nginx proxy.
([more info](https://www.itsfullofstars.de/2019/06/gitlab-behind-a-reverse-proxy/))

3. Configure nginx host
- Go to Ngins virtual-hosts config folder :
  `cd ~/chimera/core/nginx/data/config/virtual-hosts`
- Copy templates `cp chimera.conf.template chimera.conf` and `cp default.conf.template default.conf`
- Edit chimera host file with vi or any editor : `vi chimera.conf`
- Update line `~^(?<service>.+)\.sub-domain\.domain\-name\.com$;` and replace
  with your Chimera root domain name, with dot escaped with `\`
- Ex : `~^(?<service>.+)\.domain\-name\.com$;`
- Update `DOMAIN_NAME` on line 28 and 29 with generated domain ID from certbot.
  If not sure, do `ls -la /etc/letsencrypt/live/`, sometimes Certbot adds an
  extension to the folder name.

4. Create chimera private network
- `docker network create chimera`

5. Start Nginx server as detached service
- `cd ~/chimera/core/nginx`
- `docker-compose build`
- `docker-compose up -d`

Now any sub-domain from your Root DNS should respond `502 Bad Gateway`.
Also, https should work. If http does not respond, double check DNS parameters.
If you can't connect to SSH with domain name, it may come from Nginx. To check
Nginx, stop it with docker-compose and try `docker-compose up` without `-d` to 
see if it crashes, and if you have any useful log.

6. Start gitlab server as detached service
- `cd ~/chimera/core/gitlab`
- `docker-compose build`
- `docker-compose up -d`

After some minutes, you should be able to connect to `https://gitlab.DOMAIN_NAME`.
Insert quickly your master password (create a big one), then connect with user
`root` and the password you just entered.
You can follow instructions to configure gitlab on [this tutorual](https://www.howtoforge.com/how-to-install-gitlab-server-with-docker-on-ubuntu-1804/).

7. Setup gitlab token
- Connect to your freshly installed gitlab, then go to `/admin/runners`. Copy the **registration token**.
- Copy Gitlab runner config template : 
  - `cd ~/chimera/core/gitlab/data/runner-config`
  - `cp config.toml.template config.toml`
- Connect to Gitlab runner's shell : `cd ~ && ./docker-open-shell.sh core_gitlab-runner`
- Register a new runner : `gitlab-runner register` with parameters :
  - http://gitlab.chimera/
  - Enter registration token
  - Select Docker
  - Specify default docker image, can be `misterio92/ci-php-node`
  - Validate and exit shell with ctrl+c
- Configure generated file for your needs following [this](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/configuration/advanced-configuration.html)
- You can restart everything to be sure with `cd ~/chimera/core/gitlab && docker-compose down && docker-compose up -d`
- After restart, Gitlab's `/admin/runners` should show registered runner.
